In less than 10 minutes, I'll teach you
the only 1-minute scalping strategy
you'll ever need based on four simple
concepts to catch high reward to risk
trades like these. Let's start. Now, to
be able to learn and execute the
strategy the right way, we need to
understand the basics. So, there's some
concepts that we need to understand
first. One of them is imbalances. Now,
what is an imbalance in a simple way?
Most of you already know it. It's when
we have three candles. The first candle
high does not overlap with the third
candle low. In this way, we have a
bullish fair value gap or imbalance. It
goes from here to here. And then in a
bearish scenario, whenever we have the
low of the first candle does not overlap
with the high of the third candle from
here to here. That is a bearish
imbalance, and it usually gets filled
and pushed price lower. Not every time,
but we'll use this in a very specific
way, not just a typical way. So, this is
a bearish fair value gap, and this is a
bullish fair value gap. Another concept
that we need to understand is structure.
So, we're not trying to engage with the
market anywhere, but we're trying to
focus on high probability ranges,
meaning that I want to see a break of
structure and a structure from here to
here or this range. This is the range
that I want to engage with. In another
formation, we have a market structure
shift, meaning that we're going lower,
but then we flip bullish. This also
stays as a high probability range. So,
simply we want to identify the structure
and look for the continuation of that
structure. The third concept is moving
average. We're going to be using this
for the trend or for the bias. Now, the
moving average is optional. You could
use this or any other way. We'll be
going over examples with the moving
average and without it. Whenever we are
above the line, when the price action is
above, we're going to be using a 50
moving average. Above it, we're bullish.
Below it, we're bearish. The bias is
going to be very simple to identify. And
then the last concept is highs and lows
or liquidity. Now, simply we need to
understand that a high, whenever it's
taken, we're either going to be having a
continuation from it, meaning that we're
going to be a broken above it and then
continuation, or weakness and then
continu- -ing lower. So, we need to
understand the concept of liquidity. And
we're going to be focusing on a specific
type of liquidity, which is here, the
inducement, meaning that I want to see a
bullish break of structure. I want to
see a low that did not go to a specific
key level. We're going to be simplifying
this, no worries, but I want to see
price coming to that low again,
continuing higher. So, we're going to be
focusing on this specific type of
liquidity. Now, the main goal of this
strategy is very simple. It's to
identify a high probability continuation
setup on the 15- -minute, but with an
entry on the 1-minute time frame. And
you will understand why we're having two
time frames here to have a high reward
to risk. A quick note that this works on
any pair and any time of the day. Now,
as a gift, I have a free book that has
all the steps, the checklist, and more
details. You can have it for free, the
link is below. Now, the setup is very
simple. All I want to see is, first of
all, identify a break of structure,
meaning that now I'll be having a high
probability range from here to here. So,
now I do have a valid structure that I
could look for a continuation from after
the break of structure. Now, I could
also deal with market structure shift.
You might be seeing that on the
examples. So, now we know that entering
from here will be a continuation.
Another thing I want to see in between
this range is an imbalance. So, I want
to identify an imbalance. In this case,
it's a bearish range, meaning that I
want to see a bearish imbalance. And I
want to see this high retracement coming
into the imbalance, not fill it fully,
and then going lower or getting very
close to the imbalance and then going
lower. That is that we're going to be
using. That is the high that we're going
to focus on. So, simply what I want to
see is a high probability range with a
break of structure, an imbalance, a high
that is near it or just at the beginning
of the imbalance or not filling the
imbalance fully. And then I want to
ensure that I'm trading with a trend.
So, I want the moving average to also go
lower and we're below the moving
average, meaning that now we do have an
alignment between the structure and the
moving average. So, the moment we have
all of these, we're going to be focusing
on this high and we're going to enter
from it using the 1-minute time frame,
using a specific entry confirmation. Let
me show you how. Now, this strategy is
very simple and it only applies to the
1-minute time frame. But if you want a
universal way to trade the market,
that's what I built in Edge School,
where everything is built around the
Edge model. Now, Edge model is the same
model behind the 10 to 1, 15 to 1 trades
you've seen me take and share. If that's
what you're looking for, you can check
it out. Anyway, let's continue. Now,
this is around the 15-minute chart. What
we need to do first is go to the
indicators and just type EMA. Go to this
one and then go to the settings of this
indicator and change this from 9 to 50
and feel free to change the color as
well. And that's all we need for the
setup. Now, the moment we're below the
moving average with valid structure, we
can actually look for our setup. So, if
you notice here, what we have is a break
of structure. So, we have a valid range.
We're below the moving average. We're
even having a respect of another key
level and the moving average going
lower.
There is no fair value gap here, but
there is one here that got partially
filled. What we're going to be doing is
marking this high, the high that filled
the fair value gap for the first time
partially. That is our specific key
level. So, we're going to be marking
this and taking it to the right. I want
to see a bullish candle taking the high
and closing lower. I want to see the
closure. And in this time, this candle
takes the high and close lower. So, that
is our trigger candle. The entry is
going to be very simple. We're going to
take a rectangle, and that is what I
call the rectangle method. I actually
have a full ebook about this. You can
access it for free. The link is going to
be in the description. We're going to
take the rectangle, and in this case,
because it's bullish, we're going to
take it from the closing price to the
wick. And I'm going to drag this to the
right. So, simply taking the wick of
this and then switching to the 1-minute
time frame. The moment we close below
this, we can enter with a stop loss
above the rectangle, and that's it. So,
price goes higher. If you notice, we
still did not close below, and now we
close below. That is going to be our
entry. Stop loss goes above the high
here that's created, and then targeting
the next level. Now, when it comes to
targeting, you could be flexible here,
but I'd say because we're with the
trend, we can target this low here.
Going back to the 15-minute, we already
entered. It's a market order, and now
playing the price action, going to the
target. Now, if you were able to
identify your ranges without the moving
average, then yes, you can do that. Uh
the moving average has simplified.
However, sometime when the market is
ranging, it's going to be a bit
confusing. So, if you can identify that,
so if I can say that, "Okay, you know
what? We're in this range that is a
break of structure, a break of
structure, a break of structure. We're
bearish here." I'm going to be looking
for this high to be taken and then
entering after that, targeting the low.
So, for example, I can see that we have
this range pushing lower. Now, I want to
look for a high that is inside of an
imbalance. We don't have one here, but I
don't have a rejection. But there is one
here, for example. So, if I can say that
I know that we're pushing here and I was
not able to enter here. This is a push
to the downside. We do have an
imbalance, and this is the second touch
into the imbalance. I'm going to take my
rectangle. Even though this has no break
of structure, but I'm just being
flexible here in order to show you the
different ways to use this. Now, why is
this still valid? Because we're already
bearish here, and we went here to
respect the key level in here to
continue lower. So, even if this has no
break of structure, it's still with the
direction. So, the rectangle going to
1-minute time frame. The moment we close
lower, entry here after the closure
outside the rectangle, stop loss
slightly above the rectangle, and then
targeting the next level. In this case,
it only gave about 3 to 1. Actually
getting very close to the stop loss. If
you put it exactly above the stop loss,
you might be out. 15-minute time frame.
Let's see what happened. Do we get there
actually?
Maybe not. Okay, it goes there and it
gave the profit. Now, you could do this
even focusing on the specific sessions
for the day. So, I'll start from 8:00
and I'll try to see the direction of the
day. So, my focus will be only from here
to here for the day. And only from here
to here for the day. I'm not going to
focus on anything else. So, I'm going to
take a look at this and I'll see. Do I
have an imbalance for the day? For
example, here, we've been pushing higher
with a break of structure. Now, we do
have this imbalance. After a break of
structure, we have the first touch. The
second touch goes here and we close
bearish still. So, this is a no. We
close bearish. Now, simply we mark the
rectangle here, which is over the wick.
The 1-minute time frame. The moment we
close above, that is our entry. In this
case, the closure was huge. I'm not
usually going to enter from here. Maybe
if price retraces lower to here or maybe
here, I would take a setup. Otherwise,
I'm not involving with this. Okay, so it
goes very close to that one here. Okay,
I put it randomly, but I'm saying that
we want to look for a retracement. And
after that, we can target a 15-minute
level. So, what it is a valid 15-minute
level, I don't know, but it goes to 8 to
1. That is a huge one. So, simply what
we're looking for is maybe the EMA as an
optional bias, or you could use a
structure. So, something like this.
Whenever I have a structure, I have an
imbalance, I have a high near it. If we
take that high with a weakness into the
imbalance, I would say from here,
targeting the next 15-minute. That's all
we need from this setup. The better you
become with identifying the levels and
the structure, the higher the reward to
risk and win rate you're going to be
having. So, that's it for this video.
Make sure to check out Edge School, my
community, and my classes. And if you
want to trade with me, make sure to hit
the like button and subscribe. That's
it, and I'll see you next one.